---
title: Status of UBC Soaring
toc: false
header:
  image: /assets/uploads/bkg.jpg
---
I haven't provided many updates recently, so I suppose some are wondering what is going on. I've talked about the status of the club in meetings, but haven't formally posted. I'll keep this short and to the point.

Over the summer, I visited the airport in Hope several times. The car ride took just over two hours in a rented Evo. Due to the nature of the roads (combination of city & busy highway driving), this is a fairly exhausting drive. I also noticed how unique the weather is in Hope: While I drove through torrential downpour on my way to Hope one day, the weather in Hope was clear.

At Hope, the other club members seemed willing to assist a new student. After going up to the airport several times and formally requesting to join the club, they denied the request since they did not have the instructional capacity for a new student. I would need some training since I have a US glider pilot's license, not a Canadian one, and I am very rusty due to being unable to fly for a while. When I inquired about our club (citing the work done by the [University Soaring Society in Toronto](/minutes/2024/05-06-weekly-meeting-minutes-guest-speakers-from-the-university-soaring-society)), they suggested several commercial operations. They seemed to push us towards commercial operations, but did not rule out a potential partnership, though they seemed concerned about the amount of time that students would have to fly. They were aware of the USS's work as well. Commercial operations would likely be out of the price range of most students, however, and are all far from UBC.

At this point, I'm no longer running the club. I think there are too many challenges to learn to soar in the Vancouver area. We've been denied access to club promotion events like Clubs Day/Imagine Day due to not being a club, rejected from the AMS so we can't be a club, denied from booking many rooms on campus (due to not being a club), and had an account deleted from Instagram due to a bug in their AI. Now, just trying to fly there's a long and expensive drive to the nearest airport, and not much capacity for students (and absolutely none in the short term). Quite frankly I'm exhausted from several months of nonstop obstacles with no success, and so I'm stepping down from the role that I've had in the club. These challenges surprised me, since back home, there were multiple glider operations with many students and youth members within a few hours drive on the freeway. At any rate, I think a soaring operation involving UBC students will only become viable if a soaring operation were to open out of the Squamish airport (due to airspace restrictions in proximity to YVR).

There is nobody else that has formally joined the club in a leadership role, so this is the end of the club for now. I hope that these transparent resources can assist others in the future if somebody wanted to start this up again. I can provide more details and contacts to help do this in the future, as well as edit access to this website, which is [on GitHub](https://github.com/UBC-Soaring/ubc-soaring.github.io).
